All poems are collected many atoms, in Buddhism atoms, or maybe in our US numbers called particles.
All sub-particles, all are collected of the sub-particles, collected in the heap of the sub-part
icles of the poems.
And each particle, according to Buddha's teaching, again, is not solid.
Each particle also formed with so many sub-particles, sub-particles.
And each of those sub-particles is like a display, or is like rain, or is like rain.
It's nothing, really solid entities at all.
So then, therefore, that sub-particle is not solid entity, entity is like openness, or it is like
empty.
Then, with that sub-particle formed this big, big, from what we can see, then it's the same.
It's open, it's empty, because that sub-particle, sub-sub-particle is the fundamental cause to
bring this whole gross poems.
Even those looks gross and big, big things, but it is the same level, same nature, it's nothing
changed.
The way it started from the bottom, bottom, bottom, and the way it stopped, stopped, it's nothing
really changed.
It's all sub-particles, the heap of sub-particles, heap of sub-particles.
Therefore, an analogy, you see, is all empty. It's emptiness, emptiness.
There is nothing solid. And at the zukti level, zukti teaching is all display of the mind.
It's all display of the mind, not just at the zukti level, from again, from the Mahayana teaching.
Teaching, mind-only school, all the way, is all display of the mind.
So since it's a display of the mind, what is the mind in the zukti teaching?
Look to the mind. Is mind solid?
That is then in the zukti teaching, again pointing out teachers.
Where is the mind? Those are all analytic way, we examine.
Where come from? Where it is? Where? Where?
For example, now we believe when we think we have mind. It's true, we have mind.
But this now mind, where it come from?
And now this now mind is where it's going to go, future.
And then now mind, where is this now mind?
And then mind is empty. That's what's called mind is empty.
So since all is a display of the mind, then it is also an emptiness display.
Oh! And for example that, I said so many times, and many great masters used to, I heard.
It says like dream. In the dream we have a poem, song, it's everything.
It's a display of the mind. There's no substantial solid entity existing.
Therefore it's called emptiness.
Since it's an emptiness of all these poems, therefore, in the teaching, it's true.
Then those great masters who are complicated of that realization, they can go through the walls.
They can sit on the skies. They can walk on the water.
They can expect one small things in a hundred things in there.
Over a hundred things become one.
And one instant become one eon, and one eon become one instant.
All that, that openness of the freedom, that's called because of nature is freedom.
Nature is openness. Nature is empty of this, this nature.
That is what really in a zodiac. So this is what the point is of course, as I said at the beginning
,
where the great teacher, gracious teacher, Buddha point out skillful means leading in the Mahayana
teaching
from the out to the in, but zogyteji from in to the out. Out of that.
So there is form is empty. So that means, so then what is the point here?
We should not grasp it. We should not cling in that.
All is display of the emptiness, emptiness.
We should not grasp it and cling. Cling is emptiness.
That's it. Then, because when you say form is emptiness, or when the Grand Master says here,
form is emptiness, what is also avoiding?
Avoiding, avoiding the extremes of the existence.
Avoiding and freeing the extremes existing.
There is nothing that is extreme, existing like permanent or eternal.
Nothing. Form is the most tangible things in our world that we see.
This is we see. Home is a tangible. Home, even home, is not as we see.
It is display. And therefore, what is releasing our extreme will of the solid existence.
Bring to the middle. It brings us to the middle of it.
This whole is removing. Removing that attitude.
Then, next one here is the word in the teaching system.
Empliness is form. Not that empty.
Now, when the Buddha gives the teaching, form is emptiness.
Then we can immediately start thinking, all is completely negation,
or completely blank, black hole, or nothingness is.
To avoiding that will, avoiding that attitude and idea.
And then Buddha gives the teaching immediately, right after that.
Emptiness is form. Emptiness is form.
What that avoids us, that again extreme will of nothingness,
extreme attitude or understanding of the negation is avoided.
That is not nature.
It's views on the extreme or prominent existing is not nature,
and views is nothing, not existing or completely negation is not nature.
We avoiding that, we have that tendency.
Avoid, avoid the burden of grasping. We hold that.
Then we become extreme, one way or the other. All that means.
So Buddha is uprooting that very notion of the troublemakers,
notion of the troublemaker to bring us to the middle,
middle of it, or the Mademaka. Mademaka. Mademaka. Mademaka.
And also this immediately, these two words tell us this emptiness
and forms are not separated.
It shows indirectly union of the emptiness and form,
or form and emptiness are in union. They are not separated.
They are bothered by one single status.
Immediately that's caused. So to now revolve it, drift meaning,
drift call it of the, of the, where the nature is.
Where the nature is.
And then we kind of apply to the zoki level.
I mean it's the same, there's nothing really different.
And then, mind is emptiness, emptiness is the mind.
Mind, all rupa is displayed and display is rupa.
Rupa is nothing different.
Nature is the same from top to bottom.
All the nature, what the Buddha give the teaching,
the basic Buddhist school teachings, to the highest teaching of the zoki,
all teaching is leading to the same nature, according to their readiness.
There's not a difference, difference. Nature is the same.
So in the Pandya Paravana teaching and the zoki teaching,
comes here same, same point, same states, same places, same places.
And so that is really my talk for today and I stop here.